off topic
could we put together a top 10 list
of vegans who have ruined their lives
through
youtube right like people for whom
youtube or youtube fame or even youtube
success has been or brought about their
ruination
like obviously obviously
nicotto avocado is gonna rank in the top
ten
right henia mania
obviously gonna rank at the top
debatably though
kristen leo kristen leo
suicidal in her splendor in her rags and
her riches
nevertheless suicidal miserable like
it's a gilded cage right
i mean you could do a general global
top 10 list of people who have ruined
their lives by succeeding on youtube
but then like the vegan the vegan top 10
list could be could be an interesting
one
okay how did i end up watching
the mandalorian
i was drawn into this step by step
through a series of false assumptions i
think the first time i googled
um how much does it cost to get one
month out of disney plus
was just because of this kind of ethical
question of people asking for support on
patreon
vegans especially but youtubers and
generally asking you to donate
it's like hey look guys if you can buy
the entire history
of disney intellectual property for 8.99
a month
what sense does it make to be donating
10 and 20 to a youtuber
and a lot of these youtubers upload one
video a week or less right like
how do you how do you score this in your
mind and then since then it
nagged at the back of my mind
could it be could it be that the disney
corporation
is translating and subtitling its
schlock movies
into chinese and i googled around and i
saw people commenting on reddit or
commenting on twitter
i couldn't find any firm information
this but it seemed to me
i should be able to study chinese
educate myself journeys improve my
chinese
by watching these terrible films
made by the disney corporation with
chinese subtitles
chinese dubbing now in the case the
mandalorian in particular i knew the
format i knew the aesthetic
i knew the pastiche even because it is
in some ways a pastiche of
wild west and samurai movie elements i
knew
that this is going to be a sweeping
drama populated
by men of principle men of much violence
and few words
that they were going to be terse
profound statements
uh in overwrought yet emotionless
english
you know i knew exactly the aesthetic
the right ears were going for
and i thought that would be interesting
to work through in chinese and indeed so
having now seen it
this is not a spoiler it contains such
vaguely spiritual catchphrases as
this is the way uh it might be
interesting to see how you render that
in chinese
and indeed as with the catchphrases of
the original star wars movies from the
1970s and 1980s there are these peculiar
dao west overtones or perhaps
taoist undertones throughout this is the
way is the catchphrase here whereas
in the very first film you know may the
force be with you
i thought this could be an interesting
way to study
and practice chinese and obviously you
could switch back and forth
between the chinese and the english
i was wrong a gamble of 8.99 i'm very
glad i didn't sign up for one year of
service
so far i have not found a single thing
within disney plus that offers chinese
subtitles and dubbing but the
mandalorian in particular had no
chinese whatsoever nevertheless
i watched the mandalorian and also by
the way then i was thinking second best
maybe i could at least use this to
practice french but i would want both
subtitles and dubbing and it didn't have
that kind of thing said only one of the
others
wow they seem really uh they seem really
committed to like the finnish and the
swedish market for some reason
and that is about it like it's it's just
very strange what you do and don't get
in the the subtitles and dumming
and yes i mean shout out to all my
viewers from finland and sweden
the size of the chinese market is
compel the number of people who speak
chinese even within california
is a huge market so it is very
surprising how little
of the chinese language is to be found
there and yeah this may seem strange to
you but if you're studying chinese or
trying to motivate yourself to put more
hours into chinese
you can't really do game of thrones in
terms of vocabulary and so on
chinese
a lot of stuff in terms of chinese fable
and fiction
that originates from china the type of
vocabulary and the type of sentence
structure and so on
can be wildly irrelevant to the modern
era okay so this hasn't been said
um i actually wrote and published an
article
in chinese i could write another one now
specifically with the mandalorian
the article i already wrote was really
asking the question
what was the appeal of star wars in the
first place
and one of the main points i made was
this there was a time when it was really
startling and new to think about the
future
in terms of a return to feudalism and a
return to slavery
now george lucas absolutely followed the
cue
of the very first dune novel and
the author of the very first new novel
is a very strange guy
and when the first novel only came out
most people i think
imagined this was satirical so yeah i'm
sorry i forget i think this is the
in the first and the second novel both
uh there's a sort of repeated mention
that oh
don't worry about democracy um people
prefer to live under a tyranny
they prefer to have a government that
they hate and it's a
very very strange set of examinations of
and reflections on
um tyranny in the islamic world both
back then 1960s and 1970s and and a
hundred years earlier in 1860s 70s and
still applicable today but also part of
what dune was responding to was the then
still unfolding history of the british
empire
put it this way in the 1960s there were
a lot of people
alive who had really been part of the
british empire in their youth
who'd been part of the unapologetic
uh period of over british imperialism
and that included very strange
encounters between
british european attitudes and the kings
of exotic unfathomable deserts and ocean
ports on the edges of those deserts and
so on there was this strange shadow cast
now um the author of dune whoever was
not british he was a
white american and he was also
fascinated by desert ecology
there are a few other elements that came
together there
now the precise history of the haphazard
way in which
george lucas took these elements
together and ended up stumbling into the
first star wars movie
is incredibly well recorded it's
incredibly well documented
um sort of the intermediate stages of
the development of the script
have been preserved and ossified you can
compare and contrast them
the influence of other people that came
in through the editor's room and how
the significance and structure of the
plot was changed between when the film
was
like the first draft of the film and the
final product
um it's in a very spontaneous way
the differences between dune
and the final product of the first star
wars movie
they increased over time in in an
unplanned
unforeseen spontaneous george lucas
himself didn't really have a clear idea
of how this film would end up or you
could say
the way the film ended up was very
different from his original clear idea
um in looking at the mandalorian
probably the greatest praise i can give
it is this should have been
the second star wars film i really feel
that
everything else in the star wars canon
in the star wars universe after that
very first film
was garbage or at any rate
represented a tremendous decrease in
quality inspiration and interest
including
the fact that the political potential
the first film played with is discarded
and comes to nothing so mention this
very briefly a lot of you
probably saw this but didn't really
think about it
in the first three films meaning the
1970s 1980s trilogy
what do you mean by the first team
fellas what you mean by the first three
films maybe a bit
confusing the original trilogy people
like to say
in those first three films
luke skywalker has a dream
he sees his enemy decapitated
but then when he takes the mask off the
captain it's his own
face right so he sees his own face that
he himself had become
darth vader right there was a stage in
the development of the scripts again
this is
preserved for history perhaps to the
embarrassment of george lucas perhaps
his delight i don't know how he feels
about it
but the fundamental concept of the
original trilogy
was that luke skywalker would go from
being the hero
to being the villain that he would
become
himself the despotic ruler of the
universe replacing
darth vader and uh the emperor and that
never happened
right like you would discover that uh
he had become what the revolution had
been holding against
this also has a certain kind of meaning
for american history it could have all
kinds of
all kinds of different implications now
where did that idea come from
before even the second volume of the
dune
series was published to my knowledge
the author gave interviews discussing
the contrast between the first volume
and the second volume and where the plot
was going
i have seen one of these interviews so i
believe even before
the second book is is in print people
knew people have been explicitly told
this is this is the big theme that those
books are playing with
now again the dune books i forget how
many there are
more and more sequels and it deals with
more and more themes but at least in the
first two books this was one of the
striking
issues and again people thought it was
satirical
in those first couple of dune books this
notion like oh don't don't worry about
democracy
people prefer to have a government they
hate and present people prefer to live
under
tyranny and for most white americans the
dune books were the first time they had
heard
words like jihad right the whole
vocabulary of muslim
fundamentalism appears there with very
very slight
changes in spelling i i assume out of
political sensitivity
but this is a bleak glimpse into
you know religious fundamentalism in in
the future universe
religious fundamentalism or extremism
even
and return to feudalism return to
slavery
return to arranged marriages returning
to
you know political arrangements of who
rules who's in charge and who's who is a
commoner or
determined by arranged marriages it's
you know
my what do you mean so in the future we
all go back to the the dark ages
what a what a stimulating or shocking uh
concept
now in star wars again from the very
first star wars film
there is no strategy there is no
storyteller's conceit there is no point
in this really strange stubbling way
george lucas took these
ideas that were maybe already in kuwait
or disorganized in
in dune and made them even more of an
incoherent jumble and presented the
audience now i'd say in the very first
film
it is stimulating it is interesting um
i would point out that in in the dune
books
fundamentally the religion of the
emperor
is the one true religion it goes on one
of the later books is called god emperor
of dune
so the religion is real the magic is
real
you know like the magic of the the spice
and the hallucinations caused by the
spider
all this crap it like there's no
ambiguity
like the magic that they believe in in
this religion that
ultimately rules the universe it's
completely real and you have no choice
but to submit to it like your
intellectual attitude towards it doesn't
the very first star wars movie
by contrast presents us with a universe
where the true religion of the force
is one that nobody believes in it has
somehow become incredibly obscure
or forgotten nobody seems sure if the
jedi knights
really existed or if they're just a
fable it's openly said on screen many
times that the force
never it's just an idea nobody believes
in it it's just crap you know this kind
of thing
now there are inconsistencies toward the
very end
of the first film before they go out in
the final heroic mission
the leader of their army the rebel army
says may the force be may the force be
with you he says this
thing out of the the jedi which is it
totally is incoherent it totally
contradicts the in-universe
you know uh structure of the plot wait
leave it
you know this isn't supposed to be like
the catholic church in the 15th century
where they give a blessing to the army
before they go off
this is supposed to be this kind of
obscure forgotten and persecuted
religion
it's also hinted at many times that
something has happened where
the jedi knights have been persecuted
into obscurity or vice versa and so on
and then again it's also uh there's
tension surrounding the fact that
one of the senior finger figures on the
empire side darth vader
is part of this despised old-fashioned
religion that openly nobody else takes
seriously
okay now that's interesting that's a lot
more interesting than dune right uh dune
is
the the role of religion dude is
fundamentally banal i mean it's just
fundamentally
not interesting in my opinion and
this is a much more stimulating notion
that there is
this vague force in the universe
which you could say is borrowed from
really
bad english translations of daoist texts
that were available in the 1960s
i want to say this to you straight up
the actual
text of the chongza and the lietz and
the
laozi you will not find this religion
in the in the real uh ancient chinese
texts
but definitely there were a lot of
groovy 1960s attempts to popularize
uh taoism and you know it was a bit
some inspiration in the air at that time
so this is a bastardized westernized
version
of the the force of slang profaning the
universe okay
so what do we have in the mandalorian
what's so refreshing
what's so stimulating is that we get
back to
those fundamentals that made the very
first film worth seeing
and in in my opinion the absence of
those fundamentals
make the more recently created films not
worth seeing so like i'm referring to
like the prequels
to me it's unforgive unforgivably
terrible filmmaking badly because it's
just absolutely nothing about the
prequels
or not even once don't even take your
kids to see them a lot of people say
they're still good
as kids movies i i wouldn't even say
that all right so in the mandalorian
like i i sort of
wish this had come out second like you
had just the very first star wars movie
and then nothing and then we have the
mandalorian and what's interesting is
in in some ways it is engaging in what
in the province of our time what's
called fan service
like it is making copious needless
references back to the canonical lore of
the first
uh first several films like beggar's
canyon is mentioned for no reason there
are all these different
places most eisley they're all these
watchwords and
illusions and stuff i'm cursed with a
good memory really it's not that i'm a
star wars fan
but while i was watching it i this was
my i was remembering all these
ridiculous place names and made up alien
catchphrases what do you want to say the
jargon of the earlier films is still
loaded in there there are these kinds of
references the precise technology and so
on
but in season one
they have discarded entirely um
you know the jedi religion the jedi
worldview
and they've started again with this
other religion um the religion of the
mandalorians
and it's fundamentally interesting in
the same way
in this case you have to say the
mandalorians
are in the position of being not just a
despised minority
but a persecuted minority living in
hiding
so some of you might compare this to the
status of jews being persecuted by
christians in the 20th century
you could also think about catholics
under protestant majority countries
in the renaissance europe or protestants
under catholic majority countries in
arizona i mean it's
it's like many scenarios historically of
uh one religion being
persecuted to the brink of non-existence
by the other they you know they
their temple is in they meet in secret
and so on you know
uh the origin of this idea
of mandalore and the mandalorians very
briefly
has come about again to use my favorite
image
like a can of tomato soup rolling down a
staircase
to a series of unplanned and spontaneous
adaptations it actually
begins with the star wars
holiday special and in a world full of
absolutely terrible star wars movies
that always tops the top 10 list as the
absolute worst thing ever created
with a star wars name or logo on it but
in that there was a
short animated film about a character
they came up with called boba fett
attempt after attempt was made to make
boba fett and his storyline into
something interesting
and certainly something that would sell
toys or sell happy meals and that could
be commercialized
and i believe the most important
transformations took place
in the cartoon series
the clone wars cartoon series and then
to some extent also
in the comic books i don't think in this
case it was in the novels
maybe also where eventually what they
came up with was a way to redeem
the design of this character by saying
okay boba fett himself
was not a mandalorian but he must have
killed a mandalorian and stolen a
mandalorian's armor
and this armor has a special
significance for this religious order
called the mandalorians and then they
could go from there and start inventing
this new mythos
surrounding this this new religion okay
so we have been returned to
the sort of fundamental assumptions
that made the very first film
interesting and worth watching
in the first place before we watched the
first episode i said to my girlfriend
because at this time i was only
interested in this as a way of studying
chinese or practicing chinese i said
they were look
no matter how good this is no matter how
much other people may praise it
fundamentally this is space pirates you
know
like this is going to be a crappy laser
gun
action movie there's not going to be a
lot here to appreciate
by that standard i can say hey it's
better than
it's more interesting than uh space
pirates and
clearly we have foreshadowed in the
second season we're going to get some
kind of meaningful contrast
between the world view of the
mandalorians who have been established
as the sort of
anti-jedi as the opposite of the
diametrically opposed faction
their religion is in some sense
profoundly the opposite of the worldview
of the jedi
and the jedi themselves and the
character who's been most exploited
commercially the baby yoda character is
some kind of
uh naturally gifted jedi character who
will draw these two
world views together okay
i'm interested all right
the bad news is there is quite a lot
of bad writing and quite a lot
of bad acting if you are going through
this
scene by scene
does it matter yes especially
given that these are sort of veteran
producers
veteran showrunners veteran directors
given
the vintage of the talent it was
shocking to me that kind of
i think every actor under the age of 30
was just abominably awful like there
were plenty of older
actors where you go oh wow okay this guy
knows how to read a script this guy
knows that
there were several points where i said
to melissa oh this guy knows
how to do a table reading where he takes
a badly written set of lines
and makes them sing makes them work as
if it were well written
you know where again these are these are
some actors 50 years old and older you
know we
really felt that they were veteran
actors who did a good job
there is quite a lot of bad writing
there is quite a lot
of bad acting and there were a lot of
things that were objectively wrong with
it in that sense where it's like
how did this get past the workshop stage
how did this get past the table reading
why didn't people sit and say okay let's
rework this
let's do this a second time and make
this work in the year 2020 with a big
budget production like this
that that it was so flawed in that way
uh came to me as a big surprise
with that having said um
you know what what are the all-time best
batman movies
you're comparing any given batman movie
to the reality of what
other batman movies are i say okay you
come with the top two
you know the very best batman movie
may still objectively be a bad movie but
it's just better
than all the other batman movies i would
absolutely say this is in the all-time
top two list for star wars and you know
what some people
i think really you could give this
number one you could really say that
this is
the single greatest star wars film
taking season one together and regarding
it as one movie
you could say it's better than the
original film a bit of a strange
comparison but at any
rate it is in my opinion either number
one
or number two
and look guys what can you accomplish
in mainstream fiction you know i think
what you can
do is take a crowbar
to the window of bourgeois
conformist ordinariness in the society
you're living in
like people are living inside this hot
house and you come along
with a crowbar and you try to open up
that window
just a bit and say hey this
there's another way of looking at life
it's another way of thinking about the
world
you know what i mean there's something i
can do to try to
you know jilt you out of this kind of
conformist reverie you're into
to try to look at things from a new
angle and it's it's very interesting
that a book as utterly kind of
politically eccentric as the original
dune had this shocking effect on a whole
generation
i don't think by the way in 2020 i think
the new film is going to be a complete
artistic failure this respect
i don't think it will accomplish that
partly because it's 2020 it's not the
1960s
or 1970s anymore you know things really
changed
and partly because i don't believe in
the director and for other miscellaneous
reasons okay
but you know yes the original star wars
film
it really led to people asking
new questions and it still is
moving i mean it is emotionally moving
and it is intellectually moving for me
as a cynical old man
just to have depicted men of principle
people who say this is my word on my
honor
this is what i'm going to do this is
fundamentally what life's about
and we live in a society where you could
you could live your whole life in
california
and never meet never meet even one man
of principle
you could never meet anyone who has any
principle that they value more
than their own short-term self-interest
their own selfish self-indulgence for
lack of a better term
and in bringing together these medieval
aspects like nightly honor living by a
code of honor like a night in medieval
times
allegedly you know put in the asterisk
but in the footnote that well that
wasn't really what medieval times were
like
regardless like fiction the
fictionalized account of medieval times
you know presenting that in a futuristic
setting and raising those questions
for how we live our lives today what is
worth fighting for
what is worth dying for what is freedom
what is slavery what is empire what is a
republic
what is a democracy what is freedom it's
all there
and that in short is what makes the
mandalorian
worth watching